
taiwan's defense Ministry says China has fired multiple ballistic missiles during a set of military exercises in the air and the Sea encircling Taiwan.

> ballistic missiles
> 
> military exercises

Beijing launched the drills in response to a visit by Nancy Pelosi the most senior U.S official to go to the self-governed island in 25 years. the exercises are taking place in some of the world's busiest waterways.

Taiwan sees itself as independent, but China views it as its own. China's foreign Ministry said Nancy Pelosi's visit to Taiwan was a violation of the one China principle and Justified its military exercises by blaming the United States for the rising tensions in the region.
> the one China principle


China has repeatedly made clear our student opposition and the stressed that we are firmly opposed to Taiwan independent separatist forces and foreign interference, and they will allow no room for any form of Taiwan Independence forces. if the U.S continues down the wrong path then all consequences shall be borne by the U.S and do not say that we have not taught them in advance the U.S first made a malicious provocation and China has been compared to act in self-defense so whatever we have done to in response as a counter measure would be justified and the firm and resolute.
> Independence forces


of China correspondent Stephen McDonald has more from Beijing for the last couple of days
China has been amassing large formations of planes and ships all around Taiwan, and now the shooting has started so there's a live fire drills and in those
zones which have been marked out into
the North to the southeast and west of
Taiwan, the pla has warned commercial
ships not to enter commercial planes not
to fly through that airspace
interestingly I see that the U.S Air
Forces sent a ship to go a plane there
to go and observe these military drills
this is something the U.S has done in
the past when they've been live via
drills
there's talk that
the the pla could consider firing
missiles over taiwan's territory if that
happened it would be a massive
escalation the likes of which we've not
seen
but even already these These are
unprecedented scenes I mean these zones
if they're all used up
they would involve Mainland military
exercises moving into taiwan's
territorial Waters
and you know you just have to wonder if
this was all worth it in terms of a
visit I mean what are the if you're
adding up the advantages and
disadvantages of having the number three
leader from the U.S traveling to Taiwan
certainly a lot of tension a lot of
pressure on that island now
and more concerning potentially is that
now that the pla has done this this year
does that mean what every year it's
going to have a dress rehearsal for a
blockade of Taiwan a dress rehearsal for
an attack which an attempt to seize that
island and bring it back into the arms
of the motherland as China's foreign
minister expresses it so a lot of
questions and and certainly a lot of
tensions building around Taiwan as we
speak

Stephen McDonald our correspondent there
in Beijing 

well Nancy Pelosi is now in
South Korea where she's expressed
concern over the increasing threat posed
by North Korea in a joint statement with
the South Korean speaker she said she
supported efforts to maintain strong and
extended deterrence against Pyongyang
but the South Korean president who's on
holiday will not meet Miss Pelosi in
person will speak to her by phone
instead Miss Pelosi is expected to visit
the demilitarized zone later today
before heading to Japan
well let's uh talk now to Professor
Kerry Brown director of the Lao China
Institute at King's College London and
author of she a study in power really
good to have you with us professor and I
wanted to start by asking you about what
your take is on these live fire drills
by China according to our correspondent
in Beijing these are unprecedented
scenes How concerned are you that this
action will escalate
what extremely concerned who can be
relaxed about this kind of you know
issue happening uh China is now you know
kind of a very powerful military power
it doesn't have combat experience but it
certainly has the ability to you know
kind of uh move towards this sort of
aggression of bullying uh and you know
it's given China I suppose an
opportunity to kind of really have a
test at what might be possible so in
that sense the Pelosi visit was kind of
an unwanted opportunity but an
opportunity and it's one that the
Chinese people's Liberation Army and the
Navy are taking talk to me a little bit
about President XI jinping's goals uh
how Central a goal is it to unify Taiwan
and in if it is a central goal under
what sort of time frame
well this is a policy the reunification
of Taiwan that he didn't create he's
inherited it from every leader of the
Communist party and the People's
Republic of China back to 1949 uh you
know this has been a major objective so
he doesn't have any kind of real
flexibility on this issue and for his
domestic audience who are you know very
very much wedded to China being a great
powerful country uh to have the sort of
visit by an American key politician
number three in the hierarchy uh against
all kind of you know Beijing demands is
obviously a loss of Faith so part of
this is about ensuring that the Chinese
domestic public do not see their leaders
being weak I I don't think that China
wants to and take undertake any uh you
know kind of final military action that
would be obviously an absolute
catastrophe uh but they certainly can't
be seen as weak so a lot of the SIM
symbolism that we see now is something
that is driven by domestic politics not
necessarily from XI that's something
that she is reliant on and has to serve
why would it be a catastrophe to for
China to have conflict with Taiwan
because it would completely destroy the
key Supply chains around one of the
world's well the probably the world's
key economic area it would smash apart a
global semiconductor Supply because
Taiwan supplies a lot I think 50 55
percent of the world's semiconductors
which we're so reliant on it would
shatter China's International image and
it would create misery for 23 million
people on Taiwan and for people involved
in China too it would be a third world
war basically because you would have the
United States against China that's what
it would involve and so when you hear
politicians and others you know talking
about this as though it's a
confrontation that we must engage in
it's really we've got to remember the
calculations and the risks from this
would be absolutely devastating for
everyone it's interesting isn't it that
we've almost got to this this position
that we're in this morning because of
Nancy Pelosi playing into a domestic
audience and Xi Jinping plane to a
domestic audience from president xi's
point of view how secure is he given the
Chinese response to covid and it too is
facing economic challenges isn't it
well it is not easy to get rid of a
central leader in China I mean it's not
easy to get rid of a central leader
anywhere but in China I think that he's
secure uh but you know the Communist
Party of China is seeking legitimacy and
Taiwan is an issue being tough on Taiwan
that you know kind of they can't as I
say they don't have much flexibility
about now I mean Pelosi's visit I
completely understand uh you know kind
of why America would want to stress
solidarity with Taiwan because of the
security relationship I think for the
Taiwanese though who are caught between
this it's a really mixed blessing it's
good to have America's attention it's
probably crucial to have America's
attention but to be part of a kind of
game where Taiwan is just caught between
these two super powers is really really
not comfortable in the Taiwanese people
now Pelosi was there for 24 hours she's
gone they're now dealing with the
consequences of this it must be very
uncomfortable to be in Tai Bay and other
cities in Taiwan today when you know
about this you know kind of escalation
happening around you and how missteps
could be calamitous I hope they don't
happen but really this is not a relaxing
situation
Professor Kerry Brown from King's
College London really really good to
